---
sidebar_label: Use JuiceFS on AWS
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /clouds/aws
---
# Use JuiceFS on AWS

AWS is the world's leading cloud computing platform, offering almost all types of cloud computing services. Thanks to the rich product line of AWS, users can choose JuiceFS components in a very flexible way.

## Preparation

As you can see from the previous documents, JuiceFS consists of the following three components:

1. A **JuiceFS client** installed on a server
2. An **object storage** used to store data
3. A **database** for storing metadata

### 1. Servers

Amazon EC2 Cloud Server is one of the most basic and widely used cloud services on the AWS platform. It offers more than 400 instance sizes and 81 availability zones in 25 data centers around the world, giving users the flexibility to choose and adjust the configuration of EC2 instances according to their actual needs.

For new users, you don't need to think too much about JuiceFS configuration requirements because a JuiceFS file system can be easily created and then mounted even with the least configured EC2 instances. Usually, you only need to consider hardware requirements.

JuiceFS clients will occupy 1GB of disk space as cache by default. When dealing with a large number of files, the client will cache the data on disk first and then upload it to an object storage asynchronously. Choosing a disk with higher I/O and reserving and setting a larger cache will allow JuiceFS to have better performance.

### 2. Object Storage

Amazon S3 is the de facto standard for public cloud object storage services, and the object storage services provided by other major cloud platforms are generally compatible with the S3 API. Thus, applications developed for S3 can switch object storage services between different platforms freely.

JuiceFS fully supports Amazon S3 and all S3-like object storage services, and you can see the documentation for [all object storage services supported by JuiceFS](../guide/how_to_set_up_object_storage.md).

Amazon S3 offers a range of storage classes for different use cases, mainly including:

- Amazon S3 Standard: general-purpose storage for frequently accessed data
- Amazon S3 Standard_IA: for data that is long-term stored but infrequently accessed
- Amazon S3 Glacier: for long-term data archiving

Amazon S3 Standard classes is usually recommended for using JuiceFS because other classes may cost additional fee when retrieving data.

In addition, access to the object storage service requires user authentication via `Access Key` and `Secret Key`, which you can refer to the document [Controlling Access to Storage Buckets with User Policies](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/walkthrough1.html) to create it. When accessing S3 through EC2 cloud server, you can also assign [IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles.html) to EC2 to enable key-free invocation of S3 API on EC2.

### 3. Database

The ability of data and metadata to be accessed by multiple hosts is the key to a distributed file system. To allow the metadata information generated by JuiceFS to be accessible like S3 over Internet, the database used for storing metadata in JuiceFS should also be network-oriented.

Amazon RDS and ElastiCache are two cloud database services provided by AWS, both of which can be directly used for metadata storage in JuiceFS. Amazon RDS is a relational database that supports various engines such as MySQL, MariaDB, and PostgreSQL. ElastiCache is an in-memory caching cluster service and compatible with Redis and Memcached, and Redis should be used for JuiceFS.

In addition, you can also build your own database on EC2 cloud server for JuiceFS to store metadata.

### 4. Cautions

- JuiceFS will not affect the existing systems.
- When selecting cloud services, it is recommended to select all cloud services that are in the same **region**, i.e., all services being on the same intranet, which can result in the lowest latency and the fastest inter-access. Also, according to AWS billing rules, it is free to transfer data between basic cloud services in the same region. In other words, when you select cloud services in different regions, for example, EC2 is selected in `ap-east-1`, ElastiCache is selected in `ap-southeast-1`, and S3 is selected in `us-east-2`, the inter-access between each cloud service in this case will incur traffic charges.
- JuiceFS does not require the use of object storage and databases from the same cloud platform, and thus it is flexible to combine cloud services from different platforms as needed. For example, you can use EC2 to run JuiceFS client with AliCloud's Redis database and Backbalze B2 object storage. Of course, JuiceFS storage composed of cloud services on the same platform and in the same region will perform better.

## Deployment and Usage

Next, we briefly describe how to install and use JuiceFS using ElastiCache cluster, with EC2 cloud server, S3 object storage and Redis engine in the same region as an example.

### 1. Install the client

Here we are using a Linux system with x64 bit architecture. Execute the following commands, the latest version of JuiceFS client will be downloaded.

```shell
JFS_LATEST_TAG=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/juicedata/juicefs/releases/latest | grep 'tag_name' | cut -d '"' -f 4 | tr -d 'v')
```

```shell
wget "https://github.com/juicedata/juicefs/releases/download/v${JFS_LATEST_TAG}/juicefs-${JFS_LATEST_TAG}-linux-amd64.tar.gz"
```

After downloading, unzip the application into the `juice` folder.

```shell
mkdir juice && tar -zxvf "juicefs-${JFS_LATEST_TAG}-linux-amd64.tar.gz" -C juice
```

Install the JuiceFS client to the system `$PATH`, e.g., `/usr/local/bin`.

```shell
sudo install juice/juicefs /usr/local/bin
```

Execute the above command. The successful installation of the client will be indicated by the returned help message of `juicefs` as shown below.

```shell
$ juicefs
NAME:
   juicefs - A POSIX file system built on Redis and object storage.

USAGE:
   juicefs [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]

VERSION:
   0.17.0 (2021-09-24T04:17:26Z e115dc4)

COMMANDS:
   format   format a volume
   mount    mount a volume
   umount   unmount a volume
   gateway  S3-compatible gateway
   sync     sync between two storage
   rmr      remove directories recursively
   info     show internal information for paths or inodes
   bench    run benchmark to read/write/stat big/small files
   gc       collect any leaked objects
   fsck     Check consistency of file system
   profile  analyze access log
   stats    show runtime statistics
   status   show status of JuiceFS
   warmup   build cache for target directories/files
   dump     dump metadata into a JSON file
   load     load metadata from a previously dumped JSON file
   help, h  Shows a list of commands or help for one command

GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   --verbose, --debug, -v  enable debug log (default: false)
   --quiet, -q             only warning and errors (default: false)
   --trace                 enable trace log (default: false)
   --no-agent              disable pprof (:6060) agent (default: false)
   --help, -h              show help (default: false)
   --version, -V           print only the version (default: false)

COPYRIGHT:
   Apache License 2.0
```

> **Tip**: If you execute the command `juicefs` and the terminal returns `command not found`, it may be because the `/usr/local/bin` directory is not in the system's executable path `$PATH` . You can use the command `echo $PATH` to check the path and reinstall the client to the correct location. You can also add `/usr/local/bin` to the `$PATH`.

JuiceFS has good cross-platform compatibility and is supported on both Linux, Windows and macOS. If you need to know how to install it on other systems, please check the [official documentation](../getting-started/installation.md).

### 3. Create File System

The `format` subcommand of the JuiceFS client is used to create (format) a JuiceFS file system. Here we use S3 as the data store and ElastiCache as the metadata store, install the client on EC2 and create a JuiceFS file system with the following command format.

```shell
$ juicefs format \
	--storage s3 \
	--bucket https://<bucket>.s3.<region>.amazonaws.com \
	--access-key <access-key-id> \
	--secret-key <access-key-secret> \
	redis://[<redis-username>]:<redis-password>@<redis-url>:6379/1 \
	mystor
```

**Option Description:**

- `--storage`: Specify the type of object storage, here we use S3.
- `--bucket`: Bucket domain for object storage.
- `--access-key` and `--secret-key`: Secret key pair to access the S3 API.

> For Redis 6.0 and above, authentication requires both username and password, and the URI pattern is `redis://username:password@redis-server-url:6379/1`. For Reids 4.0 and 5.0, authentication only requires password, and  username needs to be left blank when setting the Redis server address, for example: `redis://:password@redis-server-url:6379/1`.

When using the IAM role to bind EC2, you only need to specify `--storage` and `--bucket` options, and do not need to provide the API access key. It is also possible to assign ElastiCache access to the IAM role, so that you only need to enter the Redis URL without providing Redis authentication information:

```shell
$ juicefs format \
	--storage s3 \
	--bucket https://herald-demo.s3.<region>.amazonaws.com \
	redis://herald-demo.abcdefg.0001.apse1.cache.amazonaws.com:6379/1 \
	mystor
```

Seeing the output like the following means that the file system was created successfully.

```shell
2021/10/14 08:38:32.211044 juicefs[10391] <INFO>: Meta address: redis://herald-demo.abcdefg.0001.apse1.cache.amazonaws.com:6379/1
2021/10/14 08:38:32.216566 juicefs[10391] <INFO>: Ping redis: 383.789µs
2021/10/14 08:38:32.216915 juicefs[10391] <INFO>: Data use s3://herald-demo/mystor/
2021/10/14 08:38:32.412112 juicefs[10391] <INFO>: Volume is formatted as {Name:mystor UUID:21a2cafd-f5d8-4a76-ae4d-482c8e2d408d Storage:s3 Bucket:https://herald-demo.s3.ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com AccessKey: SecretKey: BlockSize:4096 Compression:none Shards:0 Partitions:0 Capacity:0 Inodes:0 EncryptKey:}
```

### 4. Mount the file system

The process of creating a file system will store the information of the object storage including API keys into the database, so you do not need to input the bucket domain and the secret key of the object storage when mounting.

Use the `mount` subcommand of the JuiceFS client to mount the file system to the `/mnt/jfs` directory.

```shell
sudo juicefs mount -d redis://[<redis-username>]:<redis-password>@<redis-url>:6379/1  /mnt/jfs
```

> **Note**: When mounting a file system, only the database address is required but not the file system name. The default cache path is `/var/jfsCache`. Please make sure the current user has enough read/write permissions.

You can optimize JuiceFS by adjusting the [mount options](../reference/command_reference.md#juicefs-mount), for example by `--cache-size` to change cache to 20GB.

```shell
sudo juicefs mount --cache-size 20480 -d redis://herald-demo.abcdefg.0001.apse1.cache.amazonaws.com:6379/1  /mnt/jfs
```

Seeing the output like the following means the file system was mounted successfully.

```shell
2021/10/14 08:47:49.623814 juicefs[10601] <INFO>: Meta address: redis://herald-demo.abcdefg.0001.apse1.cache.amazonaws.com:6379/1
2021/10/14 08:47:49.628157 juicefs[10601] <INFO>: Ping redis: 426.127µs
2021/10/14 08:47:49.628941 juicefs[10601] <INFO>: Data use s3://herald-demo/mystor/
2021/10/14 08:47:49.629198 juicefs[10601] <INFO>: Disk cache (/var/jfsCache/21a2cafd-f5d8-4a76-ae4d-482c8e2d408d/): capacity (20480 MB), free ratio (10%), max pending pages (15)
2021/10/14 08:47:50.132003 juicefs[10601] <INFO>: OK, mystor is ready at /mnt/jfs
```

To check how the file system is mounted, you can use the command `df`,

```shell
$ df -Th
File system      type             capacity used usable used%  mount point
JuiceFS:mystor   fuse.juicefs      1.0P    64K  1.0P    1%    /mnt/jfs
```

Once mounted, the file system can be used like a local disk, and the data stored in the directory `/mnt/jfs` is coordinated by the JuiceFS client and eventually stored in the S3 object storage.

> **Multi-Host Sharing**: JuiceFS supports being mounted by multiple hosts at the same time, you can install the JuiceFS client on any cloud server on any platform. The files can be shared to read and write once mounting the file system using the database address `redis://:<your-redis-password>@herald-sh-abc.redis.rds.aliyuncs.com:6379/1`, but you need to make sure that the host which the file system is mounted on has privileges to access the database and the S3 being used.

### 5. Unmount JuiceFS

The file system can be unmounted using the command `umount` provided by the JuiceFS client, e.g.

```shell
sudo juicefs umount /mnt/jfs
```

> **Note**: Forcing to unmount the file system in use may result in data corruption or loss, so please be sure to proceed with caution.

### 6. Auto-mount on boot

If you don't want to re-mount JuiceFS storage manually every time you reboot your system, you can set up an automatic mount.

First, you need to rename the `juicefs` client to `mount.juicefs` and copy it to the directory `/sbin/`.

```shell
sudo cp juice/juicefs /sbin/mount.juicefs
```

Edit the `/etc/fstab` configuration file and add a new record:

```shell
redis://[<redis-username>]:<redis-password>@<redis-url>:6379/1    /mnt/jfs       juicefs     _netdev,cache-size=20480     0  0
```

The mount option `cache-size=20480` means to allocate 20GB local disk space for JuiceFS cache. Please decide the allocated cache size based on your actual EBS disk capacity.

You can adjust the FUSE mount options in the above configuration as needed. For more details please check [the documentation](../reference/fuse_mount_options.md).

> **Note**: Please replace the Redis address, mount point, and mount options in the above configuration file with your actual information.
